This was a message I sent to debian-l10n-arabic@lists.debian.org to
explain what the spellchecker is about.

---

the spellchecker is a set of scripts which manipulate po files and
output some statistic on a web page.  Spotting typos is the main
feature, but translators can use it to improve the overall quality of
their translations.

The statistics page contains the following columns for every language
supported:

"Unknown words" - is the number of unique words not found in the
dictionary of a particular language. "-" , means that the spellchecker
is not configured as to check translations for this language (usually
because an aspell dictionary for the language is not available)

"Messages" - contains all the strings for lang extracted from the po
files: you can use any spellchecker against this file to look for
typos. This file is very useful also when improving consistency for
the tranlations: when translations are spread over many po files, is
difficult to make sure that certain rules are applied to all files, so
here you can check for example that "CD-ROM" is written always the
same way.

"List of unknown words" - is a sorted list of words not found in the 
aspell dictionary aogn with the number of occurrences.

"suspect variables" - po files often contain variables ${LIKE_THIS}; a
script checks that the name of the variable in the msgid is matched in
the msgstr. It's also checked that the number of variables in the
msgstr is the same in the msgid.

"custom wordlist" - translators can write a list of custom words not
found in the aspell dictionary for their language. More details about
wordlists can be found here (FIXME).

"all files" - is a tarball containing all the above files. translators
can download this and work offline.

